https://medium.com/@cryptoneurnetwork/linked-list-vs-blockchain-17bab8f277c5#:~:text=The%20key%20difference%20between%20Blockchain,decentralized%20and%20organizes%20data%20linearly.

https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Block_hashing_algorithm

Proof-of-work:
A key idea of blockchain is that one has to perform some hard work to put data in it.
It is this hard work that makes blockchain secure and consistent. Also, a reward is paid 
for this hard work (this is how people get coins for mining).
This mechanism is very similar to the one from real life: one has to work hard to get a reward and 
to sustain their life. In blockchain, some participants (miners) of the network work to sustain the network, 
to add new blocks to it, and get a reward for their work. As a result of their work, a block is incorporated 
into the blockchain in a secure way, which maintains the stability of the whole blockchain database. It’s worth 
noting that, the one who finished the work has to prove this.
This whole “do hard work and prove” mechanism is called proof-of-work. It’s hard because it requires a lot of 
computational power: even high performance computers cannot do it quickly. Moreover, the difficulty of this work increases 
from time to time to keep new blocks rate at about 6 blocks per hour. In Bitcoin, the goal of such work is to find a hash 
for a block, that meets some requirements. And it’s this hash that serves as a proof. Thus, finding a proof is the actual work.
One last thing to note. Proof-of-Work algorithms must meet a requirement: doing the work is hard, but verifying the proof is easy. 
A proof is usually handed to someone else, so for them, it shouldn’t take much time to verify it.

Hashing: 
Hashing is a process of obtaining a hash for specified data. A hash is a unique representation of the data it was calculated on. 
A hash function is a function that takes data of arbitrary size and produces a fixed size hash.

Here are some key features of hashing:
Original data cannot be restored from a hash. Thus, hashing is not encryption.
Certain data can have only one hash and the hash is unique.
Changing even one byte in the input data will result in a completely different hash.

Hashing functions are widely used to check the consistency of data. Some software providers publish checksums in addition to a software package. 
After downloading a file you can feed it to a hashing function and compare produced hash with the one provided by the software developer.
In blockchain, hashing is used to guarantee the consistency of a block. The input data for a hashing algorithm contains the hash of the previous 
block, thus making it impossible (or, at least, quite difficult) to modify a block in the chain: one has to recalculate its hash and hashes of all the blocks after it.